22: Add chat2 protocol definition (#377)
vacp2p/rfc: content/docs/rfcs/22/README.md

---
slug: 22

> title: 22/CHAT2

Reviewer: Is chat2 a good name? I gave it this name because of naming convention in nim-waku with 1 being for Waku v1 and 2 being for Waku v2. Maybe call it "TOY-CHAT"?

name: Waku v2 Chat

> status: raw

Reviewer: Maybe add category: application even if we don't index it now?

Author: I hesitated to do it now or do it for both this and DM-ETH in a follow-up PR. Will do now then.

editor: Franck Royer <franck@status.im>
contributors:
   - Hanno Cornelius <hanno@status.im>
---

**Content Topic**: `dingpu`.

> This specification explains the Waku v2 chat protocol.

Reviewer: a toy chat example using Waku v2

> This protocol is mainly used to enable showcase and dogfooding of the Waku v2 protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This protocol is mainly used to:

a) dogfood Waku v2
b) show an example of how to use Waku v2
```

> Each Waku v2 implementation currently supports the chat protocol:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently all main Waku v2 implementation supports the chat protocol:
```

[nim-waku](https://github.com/status-im/nim-waku/blob/master/examples/v2/chat2.nim),
js-waku ([NodeJS](https://github.com/status-im/js-waku/tree/main/examples/cli-chat) and [web](https://github.com/status-im/js-waku/tree/main/examples/web-chat))
and [go-waku](https://github.com/status-im/go-waku/tree/master/examples/chat2).

> There are no relation between this protocol and the protocol used by the Status app for chat purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Note that this is completely separate from the protocol the Status app is using for its chat functionality.
```

# Design

The chat protocol enables sending and receiving messages in a unique chat room.

> The messages MUST NOT be encrypted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The messages SHOULD NOT be encrypted.
```
May change

---
slug: 22
title: 22/TOY-CHAT
name: Waku v2 Chat
status: raw
category: application
editor: Franck Royer <franck@status.im>
contributors:
   - Hanno Cornelius <hanno@status.im>
---

**Content Topic**: `dingpu`.

This specification explains a toy chat example using Waku v2.
This protocol is mainly used to:

1. Dogfood Waku v2,
2. Show an example of how to use Waku v2.

Currently, all main Waku v2 implementations support the toy chat protocol:
[nim-waku](https://github.com/status-im/nim-waku/blob/master/examples/v2/chat2.nim),
js-waku ([NodeJS](https://github.com/status-im/js-waku/tree/main/examples/cli-chat) and [web](https://github.com/status-im/js-waku/tree/main/examples/web-chat))
and [go-waku](https://github.com/status-im/go-waku/tree/master/examples/chat2).

Note that this is completely separate from the protocol the Status app is using for its chat functionality.

# Design

> The chat protocol enables sending and receiving messages in a unique chat room.

Reviewer 2: Would be great to clarify what `a unique chat room` means.

The messages SHOULD NOT be encrypted.

> The `contentTopic` MUST be set to `dingpu`.

Reviewer 2: Is it still `dingpu`? I think it is going to change to `/waku/2/huilong/proto` https://discord.com/channels/624205794384281629/723487577973456896/847057335061839892
